docs/source/2019MemHeat.rst, before:

.. 2019MemHeatCase documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul  6 13:31:15 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.
   
.. _2019 Memorial Day Heat Wave:

2019 Memorial Day Heat Wave
=====================================

A heat wave occurs on the weekend of 2019 Memorial Day across the Southeast U.S. 

..............................
Model Configuration and Datasets
..............................
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    The case runs are initialized at 00z May 23, 2019 with 120 hours forecasting. The corresponding namelist options that need to be changed are listed below. The app uses ``./xmlchange`` to change the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date, start time, and run time are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./xmlchange RUN_STARTDATE=2019-05-23,START_TOD=0,STOP_OPTION=nhours,STOP_N=120


    Initial condition (IC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `GFS reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/global-forcast-system-gfs>`_ are used as 'truth' to compare with simulation results.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2019052300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2019052300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    The GFS model EMC global workflow points to the most up-to-date GFS model development code. The GFS.v16.0.10 is tested in C768 (~13km) resolution and in 128 vertical levels. It uses two scripts, ``setup_expt_fcstonly.py`` and ``setup_workflow_fcstonly.py`` to set up the mode simulation date and case directories.

    The case runs are initialized at 00z May 23, 2019 with 120 hours forecasting. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date and directories are listed below. 

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./setup_expt_fcstonly.py --pslot 2019MemHeat --configdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/GLOBAL/WORKFLOW/parm/config --idate 2019052300 --edate 2019052300 --res 768 --comrot /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/DIR/comrot --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/OUTPUT/expdir 

    The account and simulation duration time can be set up in ``/expdir/2019MemHeat/config.base`` file. 

    .. code-block:: bash

      ./setup_workflow_fcstonly.py --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/OUTPUT/expdir/2019MemHeat

    Next step is to go to ``/expdir/2019MemHeat`` to submit the run by

    .. code-block:: bash
   
      crontab 2019MemHeat.crontab

..............
Case Results
..............
======================================================
Synoptic Dynamics
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/MSLP_MRW_v1.0_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/500mb_MRW_v1.0_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam), absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s), and winds (m/s)

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/MSLP_GFS.v16.0.10_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/500mb_GFS.v16.0.10_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam), absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s), and winds (m/s)

======================================================
Surface Temperature
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/2mT_MRW_v1.0_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F) 

    * MRW_GFSv15p2 forecasts the heat wave better than MRW_GFSv16beta across the Southeast.

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/2mT_GFS.v16.0.10_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 captures the high temperatures across the Southeast.

Commit message:

Add more description for results (#10)
* enhance description of case study results

* add readme section in example script

* add definition of MRW.v1.0 and GFS.v16.0.10 (Linlin's comment)

* add know bias doc link in Introduction

* change to regular tense (Dom's comment)

* minor fix

docs/source/2019MemHeat.rst, after:

.. 2019MemHeatCase documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul  6 13:31:15 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.
   
.. _2019 Memorial Day Heat Wave:

2019 Memorial Day Heat Wave
=====================================

A heat wave occurred on the weekend of 2019 Memorial Day across the Southeast U.S. 

..............................
Model Configuration and Datasets
..............................
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    The case runs are initialized at 00z May 23, 2019 with 120 hours forecasting. The corresponding namelist options that need to be changed are listed below. The app uses ``./xmlchange`` to change the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date, start time, and run time are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./xmlchange RUN_STARTDATE=2019-05-23,START_TOD=0,STOP_OPTION=nhours,STOP_N=120


    Initial condition (IC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `GFS reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/global-forcast-system-gfs>`_ are used as 'truth' to compare with simulation results.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2019052300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2019052300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    The GFS model EMC global workflow points to the most up-to-date GFS model development code. The GFS.v16.0.10 is tested in C768 (~13km) resolution and in 128 vertical levels. It uses two scripts, ``setup_expt_fcstonly.py`` and ``setup_workflow_fcstonly.py`` to set up the mode simulation date and case directories.

    The case runs are initialized at 00z May 23, 2019 with 120 hours forecasting. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date and directories are listed below. 

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./setup_expt_fcstonly.py --pslot 2019MemHeat --configdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/GLOBAL/WORKFLOW/parm/config --idate 2019052300 --edate 2019052300 --res 768 --comrot /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/DIR/comrot --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/OUTPUT/expdir 

    The account and simulation duration time can be set up in ``/expdir/2019MemHeat/config.base`` file. 

    .. code-block:: bash

      ./setup_workflow_fcstonly.py --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/OUTPUT/expdir/2019MemHeat

    Next step is to go to ``/expdir/2019MemHeat`` to submit the run by

    .. code-block:: bash
   
      crontab 2019MemHeat.crontab

..............
Case Results
..............
======================================================
Synoptic Dynamics
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/MSLP_MRW_v1.0_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/500mb_MRW_v1.0_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * The synoptic patterns at surface and 500hPa from the two physics compsets agree well with GFS_ANL.
    
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/MSLP_GFS.v16.0.10_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/500mb_GFS.v16.0.10_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * The synoptic patterns at surface and 500hPa from GFS.v16.0.10 agree well with GFS_ANL.

======================================================
Surface Temperature
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/2mT_MRW_v1.0_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F) 

    * MRW_GFSv15p2 forecasts the heat wave better than MRW_GFSv16beta across the Southeast.
    * There is cold bias over the contiguous U.S. in MRW_GFSv16beta.

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2019MemHeat/2mT_GFS.v16.0.10_2019MemHeat_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 successfully captures the high temperatures across the Southeast.
