docs/source/2020CAD.rst, before:

.. 2020CAD documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul  6 13:31:15 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.


.. _2020 Cold Air Damming:
2020 Cold Air Damming
=====================================

Cold air damming (CAD) occurs when the cold dense air is topographically trapped along the leeward side of the mountain. CAD has been a forecast challenge in GFS. This case is an example illustrating the GFS's capability of handling cold air damming east of the Appalachian mountains.

..............................
Model Configuration and Datasets
..............................
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    The case runs are initialized at 12z Feb 03, 2020 with 120 hours forecasting. The corresponding namelist options that need to be changed are listed below. The app uses ``./xmlchange`` to change the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date, start time, and run time are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./xmlchange RUN_STARTDATE=2020-02-03,START_TOD=43200,STOP_OPTION=nhours,STOP_N=120


    Initial condition (IC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `GFS reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/global-forcast-system-gfs>`_ are used as 'truth' to compare with simulation results.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    The GFS model EMC global workflow points to the most up-to-date GFS model development code. The GFS.v16.0.10 is tested in C768 (~13km) resolution and in 128 vertical levels. It uses two scripts, ``setup_expt_fcstonly.py`` and ``setup_workflow_fcstonly.py`` to set up the mode simulation date and case directories.

    The case runs are initialized at 12z Feb 03, 2020 with 120 hours forecasting. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date and directories are listed below. 

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./setup_expt_fcstonly.py --pslot 2020CAD --configdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/GLOBAL/WORKFLOW/parm/config --idate 2020020312 --edate 2020020312 --res 768 --comrot /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/DIR/comrot --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/OUTPUT/expdir 

    The account and simulation duration time can be set up in ``/expdir/2020CAD/config.base`` file. 

    .. code-block:: bash

      ./setup_workflow_fcstonly.py --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/OUTPUT/expdir/2020CAD

    Next step is to go to ``/expdir/2020CAD`` to submit the run by

    .. code-block:: bash
   
      crontab 2020CAD.crontab  

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    The case was initialized at 12z Feb 03, 2020 and forecast out to 90 hours.The app uses ``config.sh`` to define the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the first cycle, last cycle, forecast length and cycle hour are listed below. 

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      FCST_LEN_HRS="90"
      LBC_SPEC_INTVL_HRS="3"
      DATE_FIRST_CYCL="20200203"
      DATE_LAST_CYCL="20200203"
      CYCL_HRS=( "12" )

    Initial condition (IC) and boundary condition (BC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format.  The `RAP reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/rapid-refresh-rap>`_ are used as 'truth' to compare with simulation results.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
        :download:`Download boundary condition files: 2020020312_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020020312_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`

..............
Case Results
..............
======================================================
Synoptic Dynamics
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/MSLP_MRW_v1.0_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    * MRW_GFSv16beta more correctly forecasts the surface low than MRW_GFSv15p2.

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/500mb_MRW_v1.0_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * A suspicious upper-level cut-off low is simulated in MRW_GFSv16beta.
    * Both MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2 simulate a positively tilted trough, same as GFS_ANL.

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/MSLP_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 correctly captures the strength of the surface low, but the location is shifted northeastwards.

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/500mb_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 shows a tendency of the positively tilted trough at 500 hPa, which is consistent with GFS_ANL.

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/MSLP_SRW_v1.0_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    * SRW_RRFSv1alpha more correctly forecasts the surface low than SRW_GFSv15p2.

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/500mb_SRW_v1.0_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * Both SRW_RRFSv1alpha and SRW_GFSv15p2 simulate a positively tilted trough, same as RAP_ANL.


======================================================
Surface Temperature and Wind Speed
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/2mT_MRW_v1.0_RAP_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F) 

    * Cold air was dammed up along the Appalachian mountains in RAP_ANL.
    * Both MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2 generate warm bias along the east side of Appalachian.
    * Specifically, MRW_GFSv16beta simulates warmer temperatures over Ohio.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/GUST_MRW_v1.0_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Surface gust (m/s)

    * Stronger surface winds are simulated by MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2.

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/2mT_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F)

    * Cold air was dammed up along the Appalachian mountains in RAP_ANL.
    * GFS.v16.0.10 simulates warmer temperatures along the east side of Appalachian and colder temperatures along the west side.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/GUST_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Surface gust (m/s)

    * Stronger surface winds are simulated by GFS.v16.0.10.

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/2mT_SRW_v1.0_RAP_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F) 

    * Cold air was dammed up along the Appalachian mountains in RAP_ANL.
    * Both SRW_RRFSv1alpha and SRW_GFSv15p2 generates warm bias along the east side of Appalachian.
    * The result from SRW_RRFSv1alpha is slightly better than that of SRW_GFSv15p2.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/GUST_SRW_v1.0_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Surface gust (m/s)

    * Stronger surface winds are simulated at the southeast coast by SRW_RRFSv1alpha and SRW_GFSv15p2.

......................
Summary and Discussion
......................

GFSv.16.0.10 shows improvements in handling the shallow cold air mass during CAD events compared with its prior versions (MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2). But the warm bias still exists. This could lead to weaker temperature inversions with the warmer low-level temperatures at sites along the east side of Appalachian.SRW_RRFSv1alpah has improved simulation of the cold air mass compare to the result from SRW_GFSv15p2.

Commit message:

Adding the script for downloading the boundary conditions for SRW runs.

docs/source/2020CAD.rst, after:

.. 2020CAD documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul  6 13:31:15 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.


.. _2020 Cold Air Damming:
2020 Cold Air Damming
=====================================

Cold air damming (CAD) occurs when the cold dense air is topographically trapped along the leeward side of the mountain. CAD has been a forecast challenge in GFS. This case is an example illustrating the GFS's capability of handling cold air damming east of the Appalachian mountains.

..............................
Model Configuration and Datasets
..............................
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    The case runs are initialized at 12z Feb 03, 2020 with 120 hours forecasting. The corresponding namelist options that need to be changed are listed below. The app uses ``./xmlchange`` to change the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date, start time, and run time are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./xmlchange RUN_STARTDATE=2020-02-03,START_TOD=43200,STOP_OPTION=nhours,STOP_N=120


    Initial condition (IC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `GFS reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/global-forcast-system-gfs>`_ are used as 'truth' to compare with simulation results.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    The GFS model EMC global workflow points to the most up-to-date GFS model development code. The GFS.v16.0.10 is tested in C768 (~13km) resolution and in 128 vertical levels. It uses two scripts, ``setup_expt_fcstonly.py`` and ``setup_workflow_fcstonly.py`` to set up the mode simulation date and case directories.

    The case runs are initialized at 12z Feb 03, 2020 with 120 hours forecasting. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date and directories are listed below. 

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./setup_expt_fcstonly.py --pslot 2020CAD --configdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/GLOBAL/WORKFLOW/parm/config --idate 2020020312 --edate 2020020312 --res 768 --comrot /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/DIR/comrot --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/OUTPUT/expdir 

    The account and simulation duration time can be set up in ``/expdir/2020CAD/config.base`` file. 

    .. code-block:: bash

      ./setup_workflow_fcstonly.py --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/OUTPUT/expdir/2020CAD

    Next step is to go to ``/expdir/2020CAD`` to submit the run by

    .. code-block:: bash
   
      crontab 2020CAD.crontab  

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    The case was initialized at 12z Feb 03, 2020 and forecast out to 90 hours.The app uses ``config.sh`` to define the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the first cycle, last cycle, forecast length and cycle hour are listed below. 

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      FCST_LEN_HRS="90"
      LBC_SPEC_INTVL_HRS="3"
      DATE_FIRST_CYCL="20200203"
      DATE_LAST_CYCL="20200203"
      CYCL_HRS=( "12" )

    Initial condition (IC) and boundary condition (BC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format.  The `RAP reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/rapid-refresh-rap>`_ are used as 'truth' to compare with simulation results.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020020312.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
	:download:`Download the script for getting boundary conditions: get_hsup_bc_ic.sh <./get_hsup_bc_ic.sh>`

..............
Case Results
..............
======================================================
Synoptic Dynamics
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/MSLP_MRW_v1.0_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    * MRW_GFSv16beta more correctly forecasts the surface low than MRW_GFSv15p2.

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/500mb_MRW_v1.0_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * A suspicious upper-level cut-off low is simulated in MRW_GFSv16beta.
    * Both MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2 simulate a positively tilted trough, same as GFS_ANL.

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/MSLP_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 correctly captures the strength of the surface low, but the location is shifted northeastwards.

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/500mb_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 shows a tendency of the positively tilted trough at 500 hPa, which is consistent with GFS_ANL.

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/MSLP_SRW_v1.0_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    * SRW_RRFSv1alpha more correctly forecasts the surface low than SRW_GFSv15p2.

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/500mb_SRW_v1.0_2020CAD_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * Both SRW_RRFSv1alpha and SRW_GFSv15p2 simulate a positively tilted trough, same as RAP_ANL.


======================================================
Surface Temperature and Wind Speed
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/2mT_MRW_v1.0_RAP_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F) 

    * Cold air was dammed up along the Appalachian mountains in RAP_ANL.
    * Both MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2 generate warm bias along the east side of Appalachian.
    * Specifically, MRW_GFSv16beta simulates warmer temperatures over Ohio.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/GUST_MRW_v1.0_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Surface gust (m/s)

    * Stronger surface winds are simulated by MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2.

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/2mT_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F)

    * Cold air was dammed up along the Appalachian mountains in RAP_ANL.
    * GFS.v16.0.10 simulates warmer temperatures along the east side of Appalachian and colder temperatures along the west side.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/GUST_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Surface gust (m/s)

    * Stronger surface winds are simulated by GFS.v16.0.10.

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/2mT_SRW_v1.0_RAP_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      2-m temperature (F) 

    * Cold air was dammed up along the Appalachian mountains in RAP_ANL.
    * Both SRW_RRFSv1alpha and SRW_GFSv15p2 generates warm bias along the east side of Appalachian.
    * The result from SRW_RRFSv1alpha is slightly better than that of SRW_GFSv15p2.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAD/GUST_SRW_v1.0_2020CAD_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Surface gust (m/s)

    * Stronger surface winds are simulated at the southeast coast by SRW_RRFSv1alpha and SRW_GFSv15p2.

......................
Summary and Discussion
......................

GFSv.16.0.10 shows improvements in handling the shallow cold air mass during CAD events compared with its prior versions (MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2). But the warm bias still exists. This could lead to weaker temperature inversions with the warmer low-level temperatures at sites along the east side of Appalachian.SRW_RRFSv1alpah has improved simulation of the cold air mass compare to the result from SRW_GFSv15p2.
