docs/source/2020CAPE.rst, before:

.. 2020CAPE documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul  6 13:31:15 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.


.. _2020 July CAPE Case:
2020 July CAPE Case
=====================================

This case illustrates the low Convective Available Potential Energy (CAPE) issue during summertime in GFS.v16 identified by NOAA Environmental Modeling Center (EMC) Model Evaluation Group (MEG).

..............................
Model Configuration and Datasets
..............................
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    The case runs are initialized at 00z Jul 23, 2020 with a 24 hour forecast length. The corresponding namelist options that need to be changed are listed below. The app uses ``./xmlchange`` to change the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date, start time, and run time are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./xmlchange RUN_STARTDATE=2020-07-23,START_TOD=0,STOP_OPTION=nhours,STOP_N=24


    Initial condition (IC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `GFS reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/global-forcast-system-gfs>`_ is used as 'truth' to compare with simulated synoptic dynamic fields. The CAPE field is evaluated based on `Rapid Refresh (RAP) analysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/rapid-refresh-rap>`_ and `atmospheric sounding <http://weather.uwyo.edu/upperair/sounding.html>`_.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2020072300_srw.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020072300_srw.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    The GFS model EMC global workflow points to the most up-to-date GFS model development code. The GFS.v16.0.10 is tested in C768 (~13km) resolution and in 128 vertical levels. It uses two scripts, ``setup_expt_fcstonly.py`` and ``setup_workflow_fcstonly.py`` to set up the mode simulation date and case directories.

    The case runs are initialized at 00z Jul 23, 2020 with a 24 hour forecast length. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date and directories are listed below. 

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./setup_expt_fcstonly.py --pslot 2020CAPE --configdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/GLOBAL/WORKFLOW/parm/config --idate 2020072300 --edate 2020072300 --res 768 --comrot /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/DIR/comrot --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/OUTPUT/expdir 

    The account and simulation duration time can be set up in ``/expdir/2020CAPE/config.base`` file. 

    .. code-block:: bash

      ./setup_workflow_fcstonly.py --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/OUTPUT/expdir/2020CAPE

    Next step is to go to ``/expdir/2020CAPE`` to submit the run by

    .. code-block:: bash
   
      crontab 2020CAPE.crontab  

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    The case was initialized at 00z Jul 23, 2020 and forecast out to 24 hours. The app uses ``config.sh`` to define the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the first cycle, last cycle, forecast length and cycle hour are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      FCST_LEN_HRS="90"
      LBC_SPEC_INTVL_HRS="3"
      DATE_FIRST_CYCL="20190723"
      DATE_LAST_CYCL="20190723"
      CYCL_HRS=( "00" )

    Initial condition (IC) and boundary condition (BC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `RAP reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/rapid-refresh-rap>`_ are used as 'truth' to compare with simulation results. The CAPE field is evaluated based on `Rapid Refresh (RAP) analysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/rapid-refresh-rap>`_ and `atmospheric sounding <http://weather.uwyo.edu/upperair/sounding.html>`_.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2020072300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020072300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
        :download:`Download boundary condition files: 2020072300_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020072300_bc.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`

..............
Case Results
..............
======================================================
Synoptic Dynamics
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/MSLP_MRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/500mb_MRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * Both MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2 simulate 500hPa HGT fields and MSLP well.

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/MSLP_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)


    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/500mb_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 simulates 500hPa HGT fields and MSLP well.

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/MSLP_SRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/500mb_SRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * Both SRW_RRFSv1alpha and SRW_GFSv15p2 simulate 500hPa HGT fields and MSLP well.


======================================================
Convective Available Potential Energy
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/CAPE_MRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Spatial distribution of Convective Available Potential Energy (CAPE)

    *  Both MRW_v15p2 and MRW_GFSv16beta underestimate the CAPE values compared with RAP_ANL.
    *  The CAPE values simulated in MRW_v15p2 are correctly larger than MRW_GFSv16beta.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/2020072300_f024_BIS_MRW_v1.0_Obs_indices.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Simulated and observed sounding profile at the sounding site of Bismark (BIS), ND. CAPE values are listed at the bottom.

    * The CAPE simulated from MRW_GFSv15p2 and MRW_GFSv16beta at BIS are 2284 and 1893 J/kg, both smaller than the CAPE from observed sounding (3331 J/kg) at the BIS sounding site.
    * CAPE from RAP_ANL is larger than the observed CAPE computed from the sounding profile at the BIS sounding site.
    
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/CAPE_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAPE_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Spatial distribution of Convective Available Potential Energy (CAPE)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 simulates a lower value of CAPE compared with RAP_ANL.

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/2020072300_f024_BIS_GFS.v16.0.10.10_Obs_indices.png
      :width: 400
      :align: center

      Simulated and observed sounding profile at the sounding site of Bismark (BIS), ND. CAPE values are listed at the bottom.  

    * The CAPE simulated from GFS.v16.0.10 at BIS are 2421 J/kg, smaller than the CAPE from observed sounding (3331 J/kg) at the BIS sounding site. 
    * GFS.v16.0.10 simulates a slightly larger CAPE than the two compsets of MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2 at the BIS sounding site.  

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/CAPE_SRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Spatial distribution of Convective Available Potential Energy (CAPE)

    *  Both SRW_v15p2 and SRW_RRFSv1alpha underestimate the CAPE values compared with RAP_ANL.
    *  The CAPE values simulated in SRW_v15p2 are correctly larger than SRW_RRFSv1alpha.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/2020072300_f024_BIS_SRW_v1.0_Obs_indices.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Simulated and observed sounding profile at the sounding site of Bismark (BIS), ND. CAPE values are listed at the bottom.

    * The CAPE simulated from SRW_GFSv15p2 and SRW_RRFSv1alpha at BIS are 2752 and 2491 J/kg, RRFSv1alpha is slightly smaller than the CAPE from observed sounding (2696 J/kg) at the BIS sounding site.
    * CAPE from RAP_ANL is larger than the observed CAPE computed from the sounding profile at the BIS sounding site.
    
......................
Summary and Discussion
......................

Both MRW App v1.0 and GFS.v16.0.10 simulate a lower value of CAPE compared with RAP_ANL and sounding observation in this summertime case study. Further investigations (`MEG 2021 <https://www.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/users/meg/home/>`_) show that this is related to the drier soil layers in GFS initial conditions. 
The SRW_RRFSv1alpha also underestimates the CAPE.

**References**

NOAA Environmental Modeling Center Model Evaluation Group (MEG) (2021). [`Link <https://www.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/users/meg/home/>`_]

Commit message:

Adding the script for downloading the boundary conditions for SRW runs.

docs/source/2020CAPE.rst, after:

.. 2020CAPE documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Jul  6 13:31:15 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.


.. _2020 July CAPE Case:
2020 July CAPE Case
=====================================

This case illustrates the low Convective Available Potential Energy (CAPE) issue during summertime in GFS.v16 identified by NOAA Environmental Modeling Center (EMC) Model Evaluation Group (MEG).

..............................
Model Configuration and Datasets
..............................
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    The case runs are initialized at 00z Jul 23, 2020 with a 24 hour forecast length. The corresponding namelist options that need to be changed are listed below. The app uses ``./xmlchange`` to change the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date, start time, and run time are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./xmlchange RUN_STARTDATE=2020-07-23,START_TOD=0,STOP_OPTION=nhours,STOP_N=24


    Initial condition (IC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `GFS reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/global-forcast-system-gfs>`_ is used as 'truth' to compare with simulated synoptic dynamic fields. The CAPE field is evaluated based on `Rapid Refresh (RAP) analysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/rapid-refresh-rap>`_ and `atmospheric sounding <http://weather.uwyo.edu/upperair/sounding.html>`_.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2020072300_srw.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020072300_srw.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    The GFS model EMC global workflow points to the most up-to-date GFS model development code. The GFS.v16.0.10 is tested in C768 (~13km) resolution and in 128 vertical levels. It uses two scripts, ``setup_expt_fcstonly.py`` and ``setup_workflow_fcstonly.py`` to set up the mode simulation date and case directories.

    The case runs are initialized at 00z Jul 23, 2020 with a 24 hour forecast length. The settings that need to be modified to set up the start date and directories are listed below. 

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      ./setup_expt_fcstonly.py --pslot 2020CAPE --configdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/GLOBAL/WORKFLOW/parm/config --idate 2020072300 --edate 2020072300 --res 768 --comrot /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/DIR/comrot --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/EXP/OUTPUT/expdir 

    The account and simulation duration time can be set up in ``/expdir/2020CAPE/config.base`` file. 

    .. code-block:: bash

      ./setup_workflow_fcstonly.py --expdir /PATH/TO/YOUR/OUTPUT/expdir/2020CAPE

    Next step is to go to ``/expdir/2020CAPE`` to submit the run by

    .. code-block:: bash
   
      crontab 2020CAPE.crontab  

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    The case was initialized at 00z Jul 23, 2020 and forecast out to 24 hours. The app uses ``config.sh`` to define the runtime settings. The settings that need to be modified to set up the first cycle, last cycle, forecast length and cycle hour are listed below.

    .. code-block:: bash
 
      FCST_LEN_HRS="90"
      LBC_SPEC_INTVL_HRS="3"
      DATE_FIRST_CYCL="20190723"
      DATE_LAST_CYCL="20190723"
      CYCL_HRS=( "00" )

    Initial condition (IC) and boundary condition (BC) files are created from GFS operational dataset in NEMSIO format. The `RAP reanalysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/rapid-refresh-rap>`_ are used as 'truth' to compare with simulation results. The CAPE field is evaluated based on `Rapid Refresh (RAP) analysis dataset <https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access/model-data/model-datasets/rapid-refresh-rap>`_ and `atmospheric sounding <http://weather.uwyo.edu/upperair/sounding.html>`_.

    .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
        :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



      .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

        :download:`Download initial condition files: 2020072300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz <https://ufs-case-studies.s3.amazonaws.com/2020072300.gfs.nemsio.tar.gz>`
	:download:`Download the script for getting boundary conditions: get_hsup_bc_ic.sh <./get_hsup_bc_ic.sh>`

..............
Case Results
..............
======================================================
Synoptic Dynamics
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/MSLP_MRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/500mb_MRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * Both MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2 simulate 500hPa HGT fields and MSLP well.

  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/MSLP_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)


    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/500mb_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 simulates 500hPa HGT fields and MSLP well.

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/MSLP_SRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Mean sea level pressure (hPa)

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/500mb_SRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      500 hPa geopotential heights (dam) and absolute vorticity (10 :sup:`-5`/s)

    * Both SRW_RRFSv1alpha and SRW_GFSv15p2 simulate 500hPa HGT fields and MSLP well.


======================================================
Convective Available Potential Energy
======================================================
.. tabs::
  .. group-tab:: MRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/CAPE_MRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Spatial distribution of Convective Available Potential Energy (CAPE)

    *  Both MRW_v15p2 and MRW_GFSv16beta underestimate the CAPE values compared with RAP_ANL.
    *  The CAPE values simulated in MRW_v15p2 are correctly larger than MRW_GFSv16beta.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/2020072300_f024_BIS_MRW_v1.0_Obs_indices.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Simulated and observed sounding profile at the sounding site of Bismark (BIS), ND. CAPE values are listed at the bottom.

    * The CAPE simulated from MRW_GFSv15p2 and MRW_GFSv16beta at BIS are 2284 and 1893 J/kg, both smaller than the CAPE from observed sounding (3331 J/kg) at the BIS sounding site.
    * CAPE from RAP_ANL is larger than the observed CAPE computed from the sounding profile at the BIS sounding site.
    
  .. group-tab:: GFS.v16.0.10

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/CAPE_GFS.v16.0.10_2020CAPE_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Spatial distribution of Convective Available Potential Energy (CAPE)

    * GFS.v16.0.10 simulates a lower value of CAPE compared with RAP_ANL.

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/2020072300_f024_BIS_GFS.v16.0.10.10_Obs_indices.png
      :width: 400
      :align: center

      Simulated and observed sounding profile at the sounding site of Bismark (BIS), ND. CAPE values are listed at the bottom.  

    * The CAPE simulated from GFS.v16.0.10 at BIS are 2421 J/kg, smaller than the CAPE from observed sounding (3331 J/kg) at the BIS sounding site. 
    * GFS.v16.0.10 simulates a slightly larger CAPE than the two compsets of MRW_GFSv16beta and MRW_GFSv15p2 at the BIS sounding site.  

  .. group-tab:: SRW.v1.0

    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/CAPE_SRW_v1.0_2020CAPE_RAP_trim.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Spatial distribution of Convective Available Potential Energy (CAPE)

    *  Both SRW_v15p2 and SRW_RRFSv1alpha underestimate the CAPE values compared with RAP_ANL.
    *  The CAPE values simulated in SRW_v15p2 are correctly larger than SRW_RRFSv1alpha.
    
    .. figure:: images/2020CAPE/2020072300_f024_BIS_SRW_v1.0_Obs_indices.png
      :width: 1200
      :align: center

      Simulated and observed sounding profile at the sounding site of Bismark (BIS), ND. CAPE values are listed at the bottom.

    * The CAPE simulated from SRW_GFSv15p2 and SRW_RRFSv1alpha at BIS are 2752 and 2491 J/kg, RRFSv1alpha is slightly smaller than the CAPE from observed sounding (2696 J/kg) at the BIS sounding site.
    * CAPE from RAP_ANL is larger than the observed CAPE computed from the sounding profile at the BIS sounding site.
    
......................
Summary and Discussion
......................

Both MRW App v1.0 and GFS.v16.0.10 simulate a lower value of CAPE compared with RAP_ANL and sounding observation in this summertime case study. Further investigations (`MEG 2021 <https://www.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/users/meg/home/>`_) show that this is related to the drier soil layers in GFS initial conditions. 
The SRW_RRFSv1alpha also underestimates the CAPE.

**References**

NOAA Environmental Modeling Center Model Evaluation Group (MEG) (2021). [`Link <https://www.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/users/meg/home/>`_]
